k0s docs update (#733)
k0sproject/k0s: docs/install.md

- [Download the k0s binary](#download-the-k0s-binary)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Shell Script](#shell-script)
- [Installing k0s as a service on the local system](#installing-k0s-as-a-service-on-the-local-system)
  - [Run k0s as a service](#run-k0s-as-a-service)
    - [Check service status](#check-service-status)
    - [Fetch nodes](#fetch-nodes)
  - [Under the hood](#under-the-hood)
  - [Additional Documentation](#additional-documentation)

# Download the k0s binary

## Prerequisites

* [cURL](https://curl.se/) 

> Before proceeding any further check out [System Requirements](system-requirements.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before proceeding, make sure to review the [System Requirements](system-requirements.md)
```

- [Download the k0s binary](#download-the-k0s-binary)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Shell Script](#shell-script)
- [Installing k0s as a service on the local system](#installing-k0s-as-a-service-on-the-local-system)
  - [Run k0s as a service](#run-k0s-as-a-service)
    - [Check service status](#check-service-status)
    - [Query cluster status](#query-cluster-status)
    - [Fetch nodes](#fetch-nodes)
  - [Under the hood](#under-the-hood)
  - [Additional Documentation](#additional-documentation)

# Download the k0s binary

## Prerequisites

* [cURL](https://curl.se/) 

Before proceeding, make sure to review the [System Requirements](system-requirements.md)

> ### Shell Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### K0s Download Script
```

```sh
$ curl -sSLf https://get.k0s.sh | sudo sh
```

> The shell script accepts the following environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The download script accepts the following environment variables:
```

- [Download the k0s binary](#download-the-k0s-binary)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Shell Script](#shell-script)
- [Installing k0s as a service on the local system](#installing-k0s-as-a-service-on-the-local-system)
  - [Run k0s as a service](#run-k0s-as-a-service)
    - [Check service status](#check-service-status)
    - [Fetch nodes](#fetch-nodes)
  - [Under the hood](#under-the-hood)
  - [Additional Documentation](#additional-documentation)

# Download the k0s binary

## Prerequisites

* [cURL](https://curl.se/) 

Before proceeding any further check out [System Requirements](system-requirements.md)

### Shell Script
```sh
$ curl -sSLf https://get.k0s.sh | sudo sh
```
The shell script accepts the following environment variables:

1. `K0S_VERSION=v0.11.0` - select the version of k0s to be installed

> 2. `DEBUG=true` Prints commands and their arguments as they are executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. `DEBUG=true` - outputs commands and their arguments as they are executed.
```

# Installing k0s as a service on the local system

The `k0s install` sub-command will install k0s as a system service on hosts running one of the supported init systems: Systemd or OpenRC.

Install can be executed for workers, controllers or single node (controller+worker) instances.

The `install controller` sub-command accepts the same flags and parameters as the `k0s controller` sub-command does.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

        k0s install controller --enable-worker

Flags:
  -c, --config string            config file (default: ./k0s.yaml)
      --cri-socket string        contrainer runtime socket to use, default to internal containerd. Format: [remote|docker]:[path-to-socket]
  -d, --debug                    Debug logging (default: false)
      --enable-worker            enable worker (default false)
  -h, --help                     help for controller
  -l, --logging stringToString   Logging Levels for the different components (default [konnectivity-server=1,kube-apiserver=1,kube-controller-manager=1,kube-scheduler=1,kubelet=1,kube-proxy=1,etcd=info,containerd=info])
      --profile string           worker profile to use on the node (default "default")
      --token-file string        Path to the file containing join-token.

Global Flags:
      --data-dir string        Data Directory for k0s (default: /var/lib/k0s). DO NOT CHANGE for an existing setup, things will break!
      --debugListenOn string   Http listenOn for debug pprof handler (default ":6060")
```

For example, the command below will install a single node k0s service on Ubuntu 20.10:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

$ k0s install controller --enable-worker
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] no config file given, using defaults         
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] creating user: etcd                          
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] creating user: kube-apiserver                
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] creating user: konnectivity-server           
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] creating user: kube-scheduler                
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] Installing k0s service
```

## Run k0s as a service

```sh
$ systemctl start k0scontroller
```

### Check service status

```sh

> # systemctl status k0scontroller.service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ systemctl status k0scontroller
```

     Loaded: loaded (/etc/systemd/system/k0scontroller.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
     Active: active (running) since Fri 2021-02-26 08:37:23 UTC; 1min 25s ago
       Docs: https://docs.k0sproject.io
   Main PID: 1408647 (k0s)
      Tasks: 96
     Memory: 1.2G
     CGroup: /system.slice/k0scontroller.service
     ....

### Query cluster status

```sh
$ k0s status
Version: v0.11.0-beta.2-16-g02cddab
Process ID: 9322
Parent Process ID: 1
Role: controller+worker
Init System: linux-systemd
```

### Fetch nodes
```sh
$ k0s kubectl get nodes
NAME   STATUS   ROLES    AGE    VERSION
k0s    Ready    <none>   4m6s   v1.20.4-k0s1
```

## Under the hood

> The command will create service stub file which can be found at:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The command will create a service stub file which can be found at:
```

```
$ cat /etc/systemd/system/k0scontroller.service 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Just get rid of the section. The file location is different for openrc anyway.

Author: Agreed

> The command will create following users:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Workers are always run as root. For controllers, the command will create the following system users:
```

> ```
> etcd
> kube-apiserver
> konnectivity-server
> kube-scheduler
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `etcd`
* `kube-apiserver`
* `konnectivity-server`
* `kube-scheduler`
```

- [Download the k0s binary](#download-the-k0s-binary)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Shell script](#shell-script)
    - [cURL](#curl)
- [Installing k0s as a service on the local system](#installing-k0s-as-a-service-on-the-local-system)
  - [Under the hood](#under-the-hood)
  - [Additional Documentation](#additional-documentation)

# Download the k0s binary

## Prerequisites

> * https://curl.se/ 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [cURL](https://curl.se/) 
```

Before proceeding any further check out [System Requirements](system-requirements.md)

> ### Shell script

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Shell Script
```

Titles title-cased elsewhere

```sh

> curl -sSLf https://get.k0s.sh | sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ curl -sSLf https://get.k0s.sh | sh
```

> $ curl -sSLf https://get.k0s.sh | sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ curl -sSLf https://get.k0s.sh | sudo sh
```

```

> The shell script accepts following environment variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The shell script accepts the following environment variables:
```

> 1. `K0S_VERSION=v0.11.0` which allows you to pick k0s version v0.11.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `K0S_VERSION=v0.11.0` which allows you to pick k0s' installed version.
```

> 1. `K0S_VERSION=v0.11.0` which allows you to pick k0s version v0.11.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `K0S_VERSION=v0.11.0` - select the version of k0s to be installed
```

2. `DEBUG=true` Prints commands and their arguments as they are executed.

### cURL

> This example is essentially what is described in section [above](#shellscript) with the difference that the binary that is downloaded will keep the name as it is and that `chmod` needs to be set to `755` or `+x`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example is essentially what is described in the section [above](#shellscript) with the difference that the binary that is downloaded will keep the name as it is and that `chmod` needs to be set to `755` or `+x`
```

```

> curl -LJO  "https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s/releases/download/v0.11.0/k0sctl-linux-x64"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
curl -LJO  "https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s/releases/download/v0.11.0/k0s-linux-x64"
```

you could just add a `-o k0s` and `&& chmod +x k0s` and the earlier paragraph can be simplified.

Reviewer: I think we should choose either to use the get.k0s.sh script OR curl. adding both feels redundant.
Using the same analogy, we could point users to using their own systemctl file, but we don't, and we only use the `k0s install` command. Same logic should apply here as well.

> ```

Reviewer: Why do we need this section, if the recommended method is by using get.k0s.sh? I think it's redundant,

> ### cURL
> 
> This example is essentially what is described in the section [above](#shellscript) with the difference that the binary that is downloaded will keep the name as it is and that `chmod` needs to be set to `755` or `+x`
> ```
> curl -LJO  "https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s/releases/download/v0.11.0/k0s-linux-x64"
> ```
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

# Installing k0s as a service on the local system

> The `install` sub-command will install k0s as a system service on hosts running one of the supported init systems (systemd and OpenRC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `k0s install` sub-command will install k0s as a system service on hosts running one of the supported init systems: Systemd or OpenRC.
```

> Install can be executed for two k0s roles: controller and worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install can be executed for workers, controllers or single node (controller+worker) instances.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't like executions. 

This just lists the roles so maybe it should say something like:

```suggestion
To install the k0s service, you must use `k0s install <role>` where `<role>` is one of the k0s roles: controller, worker or for a single node instance:  controller+worker.
```

> Install `controller` subcommand will accept all available flags and parameters supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `install controller` sub-command accepts the same flags and parameters as the `k0s controller` sub-command does.
```

With controller subcommand you can setup a single node cluster by running:

        k0s install controller --enable-worker

Flags:
  -c, --config string            config file (default: ./k0s.yaml)
      --cri-socket string        contrainer runtime socket to use, default to internal containerd. Format: [remote|docker]:[path-to-socket]
  -d, --debug                    Debug logging (default: false)
      --enable-worker            enable worker (default false)
  -h, --help                     help for controller
  -l, --logging stringToString   Logging Levels for the different components (default [konnectivity-server=1,kube-apiserver=1,kube-controller-manager=1,kube-scheduler=1,kubelet=1,kube-proxy=1,etcd=info,containerd=info])
      --profile string           worker profile to use on the node (default "default")
      --token-file string        Path to the file containing join-token.

Global Flags:
      --data-dir string        Data Directory for k0s (default: /var/lib/k0s). DO NOT CHANGE for an existing setup, things will break!
      --debugListenOn string   Http listenOn for debug pprof handler (default ":6060")
```

> For example running a single node k0s cluster on Ubuntu 20.10:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the command below will install a single node k0s service on Ubuntu 20.10:
```

```
$ k0s install controller --enable-worker
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] no config file given, using defaults         
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] creating user: etcd                          
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] creating user: kube-apiserver                
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] creating user: konnectivity-server           
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] creating user: kube-scheduler                
INFO[2021-02-24 11:05:42] Installing k0s service
```

> Run k0s as a service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run k0s as a service
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

> $ systemctl start k0scontroller.service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ systemctl start k0scontroller
```

```

> Check service status:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check service status
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

> # systemctl status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# systemctl status k0scontroller.service
```

Reviewer: Is this command supposed to be the output of systemctl, or k0s status command? (it's not clear)

Reviewer 2: You don't need the `.service`.

> ● k0s
>     State: running
>      Jobs: 0 queued
>    Failed: 0 units
>     Since: Wed 2021-02-24 10:49:41 UTC; 30min ago
>    CGroup: /
>    ...
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Loaded: loaded (/etc/systemd/system/k0scontroller.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
     Active: active (running) since Fri 2021-02-26 08:37:23 UTC; 1min 25s ago
       Docs: https://docs.k0sproject.io
   Main PID: 1408647 (k0s)
      Tasks: 96
     Memory: 1.2G
     CGroup: /system.slice/k0scontroller.service
     ....
```
```

> Query cluster status:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Query cluster status
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

$ k0s status
Version: v0.11.0-beta.2-16-g02cddab
Process ID: 9322
Parent Process ID: 1
Role: controller+worker
Init System: linux-systemd
```

> Fetch nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Fetch nodes
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

$ k0s kubectl get nodes
NAME   STATUS   ROLES    AGE    VERSION
k0s    Ready    <none>   4m6s   v1.20.4-k0s1
```

## Under the hood

The command will create service stub file which can be found at:

```
$ cat /etc/systemd/system/k0scontroller.service 

> [Unit]

Reviewer 3: Showing the file location makes sense, but not sure if the output needs to be shown. It gets easily outdated.

Description=k0s - Zero Friction Kubernetes
Documentation=https://docs.k0sproject.io
ConditionFileIsExecutable=/root/go/src/github.com/k0sproject/k0s/k0s

After=network-online.target 
Wants=network-online.target 

[Service]
StartLimitInterval=5
StartLimitBurst=10
ExecStart=/root/go/src/github.com/k0sproject/k0s/k0s controller --enable-worker=true

RestartSec=120
Delegate=yes
KillMode=process
LimitCORE=infinity
TasksMax=infinity
TimeoutStartSec=0
LimitNOFILE=999999
Restart=always

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```
The command will create users which can be listed:
```

> $ cat /etc/passwd

Reviewer 3: Showing the file location makes sense, but not sure if the output needs to be shown.

Reviewer 2: Would be better to just list the users it will create, no need to tell where linux stores users.

> $ cat /etc/passwd

Reviewer: The location of the user's files is quite a basic knowledge for any unix/linux user. Better information I think would be to list the created users, and the services using them.
Also, worth mentioning that these users are only created for controller roles (workers run as root, always).
